---
layout: post
title:  "First Post of 2017"
---
The previous post turned out to be foreshadowing. The past 60 days have resulted in a complete pause in technology learning. Not only did I relocate to temporary lodging in a friend's apartment, but I also had to leave that home for 10 days during the holidays. Not only was I reestablishing routines, finding new places to shop, working around the habits of new roommates, but I continued working one part-time job and entered a more active phase of engagement with a consulting client.  The holidays arrived and their was family to see, friends who visited NYC, gifts to purchase and a few events to attend.

So here I am in the first days of 2017 resuming active technology learning and building activities. It is already proving to be an exciting year - with very big plans for a relocation to the West Coast and some exciting new friendships and work relationships starting to bloom.

Following are areas where I would like to learn - by reading, experimenting and hopefully by building in hands-on mode:

- cloud services - AWS in particular. I plan to deploy my own Jekyll blog, maintain it and devlop it.
- web development - either by continuing the Udacity curriculum or by switching to FreeCode Camp;
- blockchain;
- cybersecurity technologies (cryptography, SSL);
- data analytics (download NFLscrapr and play with it)
- AI and commercial applications (Alexa, Google, Siri)
- self-driving vehicle technologies.
- e-commerce (especially empowering the little guy).
