---
layout: post
title:  "R and RStudio for Data Analysis"
---
This is a continuation of posts on [Tableau]({% post_url 2018-08-05-tableau %}) and [Pandas]({% post_url 2018-08-06-pandas %}) from earlier in the month. I worked with all of these technologies while working through the eight projects for the [Udacity Data Analyst Nanodegree](https://blog.udacity.com/2017/09/new-data-analyst-nanodegree-program.html).

The R project was a change-of-pace in the Udacity sequence which covered a number of technologies but mostly emphasized fluency in the Python/Pandas tool set. It was initially intimidating to learn a completely new language to gather, wrangle and analyze data, but ultimately it was empowering to realize that learning enough R in a short period was doable. More important than expertise in any particular technology, the projects required systematic thinking, knowledge of basic statistics and intuition about how to combine the different aspects of the project. I am by no means an R expert, but feel qualified to assess the strengths and weaknesses of technology.

R is an open-source statistical computing language. That sentence encapsulates its strengths.  It popular throughout the data science world, but seems to be particular wide-spread amongst academic statisticians. As a result, the statistical features (both built-in to the language itself and using libraries) are very strong. There are also lots of free resources available to anyone who wants to learn the language.

Because it is open-source, almost everything connected with R is free to use (at least as an individual or for academic institutions). There is a ton of sample code available which makes it easy for a rudimentary user to quickly extend her capabilities.

Another strength of R is the GGPlot visualization library.  In my short data analytics experience, GGPlot hits the sweet spot of being extremely configurable, relatively easy-to-use and produces attractive charts. Placed in a continuum, [python visualization libraries]({% post_url 2018-08-14-python-viz %}) like matplotlib and seaborn require a fair amount of dexterity applying parameters to produce decent looking plots. Tableau doesn't require any coding and produces visually striking charts, but it also works best with relatively small, pre-tidied datasets. GGPlot is somewhere in the middle, which is a good place to be.

Another strength worth mentioning is RStudio, a powerful IDE (integrated development environment), which makes working in R extremely efficient. There are IDEs for python too, but as far as I know none are optimized for data analysis like RStudio. RStudio is a for-profit company that sells commercial licenses to the product, which is free to use for individuals and academic institutions. There is a benefit to having a company aligned to the success of an open source technology: companies like R-Studio have an incentive to have their engineers and scientists spend part of their time maintaining the free technology.

There are also a few negatives to using R as one's primary data analysis tool. R was created by academic statisticians. While it does have many features of general purpose computing languages, these features (web servers, for instance) are not as well-developed as for a broadly popular language like Python.  After first becoming accustomed to Python's simple, elegant syntax, I personally found R to be a little clunky.  Finally, Python, because it is a general purpose language and is used widely in companies like Google, has become the language of choice for machine learning and other advanced applications of data science technologies. People new to the field are well-advised to focus on Python because of these wider applications.
