---
layout: post
title:  "Tableau"
---
My most recent data analytics project - and the final one for the Udacity Data Analyst nanodegree - required using Tableau to create a data visualization. I rejected the datasets that were presented and at Max's suggestion gathered salary and NBA performance data from the Basketball-Reference website.

Tableau has been marketed (very successfully) to corporations as a way to make data visualization and some basic analytics capabilities available to non-coders (i.e., "DIY analytics without software engineers or data scientists"). This is literally true as most of the manipulation of variables can be done using drag-and-drop within the Tableau workspace. However, I will argue that using Tableau well requires both expertise and intuition about statistical data and facility with design for data visualization.

Tableau works best with relatively small, clean and tidy datasets. "Clean" and "tidy" here are terms of art for error-free data and data arranged in an optimal way for systematic analysis.  Data in the real world is rarely clean or tidy, so a good part of an analyst's job is to "munge" the dirty data. For the project, I actually used two different programmatic tools to scrape the data I needed from Basketball-Reference and to clean it up in order to visualize it within Tableau.

The next step is to load the data into Tableau. While this does not require coding skill, it is helpful to have an understanding of SQL 'joins' (a requirement if you are loading data from more than one source). Once the data is loaded, the different variables are available as "Dimensions" and "Measures" which can be dragged into different parts of your table.  Again, this does not require any coding knowledge at all, but it is extremely helpful to know what kinds of data fields combine to make various types of charts. Tableau does provide the users with helpful hints, but without some degree of data intuition, it would take a very long time to build anything useful.

The bottom line is this. While Tableau doesn't require any coding knowledge, in order to use it efficiently, the analyst needs to know some statistics, and to have developed some facility with cleaning data, intuition about how different types of fields can be combined to create interesting visualizations, and to have some basic design capability.  There is a learning curve to becoming adept at Tableau: I think it may be as much of learning curve as teaching oneself some basic Python or R syntax.  I, personally, am glad to have Tableau in my toolbox - a lot of companies swear by it - but am unlikely to choose it over one of the more configurable open-source tool-sets such as Python-Pandas- Seaborn or R-GGPlot.

My final [Tableau project submission for Udacity is here](https://public.tableau.com/profile/jasonh4594#!/vizhome/NBASalaryPerformanceDataVizFinal/NBASalariesPerformance).
