---
layout: post
title:  "Pandas"
---
I am currently finishing off the final project for the Udacity data analytics nanodegree (it's actually the second-last project in sequence). This particular project is all about 'wrangling' ('munging') data and while it has a number of fascinating aspects, most of the work is tedious.

In the sequence, this project marks a return to the Python tools for data analysis (most important part of which is the Pandas library). One of the features of the Udacity program is that the student must learn to function with a number of different tools - R/RStudio, SQL, Tableau and Excel. I would argue that this simulates real-life where businesses (or organizations within a larger business) are tied to legacy technologies. It's important for the data analyst/ scientist to understand that data is data and that analysis can happen in many different environments.

That said, about half of the projects in this program use Python-based tools. For me, Python was a language I  started learning a few years ago with a different goal in mind. It is a widely-used general purpose programming language with many freely available libraries. While one is likely to use many Python libraries, Pandas is the most important one. It provides both data structures and data analysis tools "enabling you to carry out your entire data analysis workflow in Python without having to switch to a more domain specific language like R," [quoting the Pandas project home page](https://pandas.pydata.org/).

So here are the main things that I prefer in Pandas to the alternatives (namely R):

- Python is extremely readable and easy to follow - even when a function or data structure is a little complex.
- Python is a general purpose tool, so it's relatively straightforward to write a function that, for instance, scrapes data from a website. Even better, since it is so widely used, there is an excellent chance that someone else has written something similar and made it freely available.
- Pandas syntax is very straight-forward and it is also very widely used, so extremely easy to find sample code and solutions to commonly encountered problems.
- It's also true that Python has become the main language for Machine Learning and Deep Learning, AI-related fields that are a next-step for the aspiring data scientist.

I will continue to think  about other advantages to Pandas and if I discover any, will add to this post. It is true that R has an equally passionate and committed community, so if you want to accomplish something particular, it's just as likely you will find relevant R code as python. I can also argue that the primary library used in R data analysis - GGPlot - is better at configuring specific visualizations than are the Python equivalents (matplotlib and seaborn).
