---
layout: post
title:  "Holiday Reading: Small Fry"
date:   2018-12-28
categories: books
---
Memoir is one of my favorite literary genres. Sometimes a memoir can seem like direct factual testimony, though in fact it requires incredible literary skill to render the material into a story that is meaningful and engaging for readers.

Steve Jobs, who died in 2011, was the leading American inventor and technology visionary of the last quarter of the 20th century and first decade of the 21st. His inspiring life story and many personality flaws have been chronicled in full-length biographies, feature films and in more than one memoir written by people who worked at Apple and knew him at various points during his life.

This past September a new "Jobs book" appeared, written by his eldest daughter, Lisa Brennan-Jobs. The book, *Small Fry* is her memoir of a childhood in which Jobs was only intermittently present, but nevertheless loomed large.

The factual outlines of Lisa's relationship with her famous father have been covered in many other Jobs books. Jobs never married Chrisann Brennan, Lisa's mom, with whom he had a relationship starting in high school and extending into their mid-twenties. Apple's initial success occurred shortly after Lisa's birth and Jobs' denied paternity for several years. He named an important (though commercially unsuccessful) computer the "Lisa," but denied that it was named after her until she was an adult. After California courts forced him to pay child support, he became intermittently present in her childhood both before and after his marriage and fathering his other three children.

Brennan-Job's memoir is not really about Steve Jobs, or more precisely, it's only about him tangentially. It is an acutely observant coming of age story by a very smart, emotionally-damaged girl. It is also an excellent description of northern California in the 1980s and '90s.

The portrayals of both parents are excellent. The book's reviews focused on the outrageous cruelty of Steve Jobs as a father. But the author is painstaking in the depiction of his strengths and of the high points of their relationship.  Brennan-Jobs portrays her mother as the more consistent and nurturing parent, but she is also unblinking in holding a mirror up to moments when her mom lost her temper or was needy and angry. Brennan-Jobs is also unsparing in portraying herself. You get a dose of her vanity and the ways that she used youth, beauty and intelligence to manipulate her parents, teachers and friends.

The book is a true literary accomplishment. I am currently reading a trio of memoirs published in the past year and after finishing *Small Fry* dove into the memoir of the rock/blues guitarist, Jorma Kaukonen. Kaukonen is a very fine musical artist and, as the memoir *Been So Long* demonstrates, is both observant and thoughtful. After reading Jobs-Brennan's book, Kaukonen's writing feels like rough sandpaper.

Nevertheless, I found myself wondering if Brennan-Jobs would have found a publisher, were she not Steve's daughter? And even if she had, would I have read the book if it were the memoir of a brilliant, but anonymous child of hippies? I probably would not have read it. For many of us, curiosity about Steve Jobs and the gulf between the myth and reality is pretty irresistible. None of this diminishes Brennan-Jobs' accomplishment with *Small Fry.*  I hope that she continues to write substantial works and look forward to seeing what other works of imagination she has in store for us.
