---
layout: post
title:  "Amazon Groceries"
---

I visited one of the highly automated Amazon Go stores this week for the first time ever. Amazon Go are convenience-type stores where customers swipe in with an app, help themselves to items they wish to purchase, and walk out. Sensors, cameras and a whole lot of software know what you have taken and they charge your account accordingly. For the moment, the stores stock items similar to a 7-11 or airport "grab & go" store, though [press coverage indicates that Amazon is considering applying the format to a wider variety of items](https://www.theverge.com/2018/9/19/17880530/amazon-go-cashier-less-stores-new-locations-2021).

Amazon has at least two other entrants in the grocery business. One is Amazon Fresh which allows you to order groceries on the main Amazon site for delivery or pick-up (in certain locations). I have not used Fresh yet, though I used to live near one of their two Seattle-area pick-up locations so have the logo burned into my brain. Fresh is competing with companies like Instacart and Fresh Direct (NYC-only).

Whole Foods, which Amazon acquired in 2017, is the company's best-known grocery brand. Whole Foods operates around 500 stores, continues to expand, and is managed as an independent brand. Amazon does offer a 10% discount on many items to Prime members at Whole Foods as long as you connect your Whole Food account and your Prime account. In other words, Amazon is trading a discount for more complete data about your shopping habits.

Also available to Prime members is Amazon Prime Now which is a separate mobile phone app and website which allow customers in certain zip codes the opportunity to order selected items to be delivered within a couple hours. The items are sourced from Amazon, Whole Foods and also from a few third-party stores that have allied with Amazon.

There may be other Amazon "channels" which offer groceries for sale, such as Alexa, the voice-driven virtual assistant, but Go, Fresh, and Whole Foods are the main three. It should be pretty obvious from the descriptions above that one of the main things Amazon is doing is collecting information about shoppers and shopping habits. This is not entirely a bad thing, but I myself am very reluctant to provide too much data about myself to one company, so I have not identified myself as a Prime shopper at Whole Foods (I don't shop there very often), nor will I shop using my Echo device (with Alexa). I also prefer to shop for grocery items in person so therefore am not a natural customer for either Fresh or Prime Now.

However, there was something magical about the experience of shopping at Amazon Go. I loved taking an item and walking out without having to wait on a checkout line! Of course, there are times when one actually enjoys interacting with a cashier, but there are plenty of moments when a quick, nearly frictionless shopping experience is exactly right. Mentally, I immediately applied the idea to buying groceries at Trader Joe's where there are often long lines. I do look forward to wider adoption of the Amazon Go type of automated shopping.
