---
layout: post
title:  "Creativity in Data journalism"
---
Sometimes data journalists can delight us with creative approaches to thinking about issues and measuring things. I enjoyed [the article by Owen Phillips which appeared yesterday on FiveThirtyEight.com](https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/what-reddit-can-tell-us-about-nba-fan-bases/) which used comments on Reddit as a proxy for NBA fan engagement.

To my mind, the most interesting part of the article is buried near its end; a straightforward table showing the number of subscribers to each team's subreddit, the number of comments by those fans on r/NBA, and a the ratio of comments to team subscribers (computed from the previous two columns - this is a proxy for how engaged are that team's fans).

I was very surprised to learn that my favorite team, the Brooklyn Nets, have the fifth fewest subreddit subscribers in the league. While the Nets are most definitely number two in a two-team city, New York is the most populous city in the nation. I would have guessed the Nets to be middle-of-the-pack in fan engagement, not near the bottom of the table.

As I was preparing to post this item, I did a little fact-checking of the data used for the article. FiveThirtyEight.com publishes some datasets on github, but not (yet) this one. The subscriber numbers on redditmetrics.com, cited in the article as the source of data, were significantly lower than those that appear in the published article. Since the real numbers are lower, the explanation is not that the data used in the article are dated (in which case the actual numbers would be higher). There may be some holes in FiveThirtyEight's fact checking process, though, in general, the quality of its analysis is excellent.
