---
layout: post
title:  "Passion Projects and Success Disasters"
---
A guy I know through my gym is running a pop-up fried chicken restaurant. He is an experienced restaurant cook, but is currently employed full time in another capacity. The pop-up is a partnership with a friend of his, also a chef; the two of them have been discussing it for months. I know this because some of that discussion took place publicly on a podcast the two of them record.  The concept is to replicate a specific street chicken stand in Thailand with very simple offerings: chicken, sticky rice, pickles and one or two other items.  For the last couple of months, the two have been running a pop-up every two or three weeks. Sometimes they are able to borrow a restaurant; another time the pop-up was at our gym.  This is the definition of a passion project: the pair are experimenting, they love to prepare food well, and they have an ideal in mind which they want to turn into reality.

Tonight was the fourth or fifth occasion of the pop-up. The date was announced a couple weeks ago and together with the menu publicized on Instagram. Serving time was announced as 5-9p and I knew it would be better to show up on the early side. When I got to the restaurant at 630pm, the place was packed. The line to order was long, but I placed my order within ten minutes. The cashier told me they were out of rice, so would I take extra pickles and slaw instead. I went to the bar and ordered a beer and waited, expecting to get my meal within 15 minutes. And I waited. And waited. Accounting for turnover, there must have been about 80 people in the restaurant. It was crowded, but not packed. This is the definition of a success disaster - when one's most optimistic projections are exceeded in a way that presents severe management challenges.  In this case, the two guys in the kitchen and the two gals taking orders and serving were overwhelmed long before the food ran out.

And yes, the chicken is very, very good. Check out Midnight Chicken Seattle if you get a chance.
