---
layout: post
title:  "Weekend Reading: Notorious RBG "
---

Ruth Bader Ginsburg is very much alive and still sitting on the Supreme Court, yet she is simultaneously becoming part of history and myth. The recent documentary film *RBG* enjoyed unexpected box-office success and there are both a feature film and a serious biography about to be released.

The *New Yorker* magazine recently published an [article by Jill Lepore](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2018/10/08/ruth-bader-ginsburgs-unlikely-path-to-the-supreme-court) which serves both as an overview of longer biographies and also a corrective to the gathering RBG myth. In it, Lepore recounts that women's political groups were initially lukewarm, at best, toward the idea of Ginsburg's nomination to the court in 1993. Ginsburg had given a speech early that year in which she spoke out in favor of judicial moderation and collegiality. She had earlier been critical of the reasoning behind the Roe v Wade decision (*to be clear: not* critical of the decision itself). As a result, there was a perception that she was insufficiently progressive, particularly on reproductive rights, and Ginsburg's was not among the names recommended to President Clinton by women's groups that spring. Fortunately, the President's indecisiveness in making the appointment worked in her favor: it gave the nominee's husband, Martin Ginsburg, an opportunity to engage a letter-writing campaign in her favor. RBG famously sealed the deal in a face-to-face interview with the President.

Lepore's article is relatively short and highly worthwhile. It illustrates how historical myth can rapidly overtake nuanced reality.
