---
layout: post
title:  "1998"
---
Have been thinking a lot recently about the year 1998. Twentieth anniversaries of  notable events have been making the news and it was also a significant year personally. Big stories at the time included the independent counsel investigation of President Clinton's extra-marital affairs which which resulted in the President's impeachment the following year; and bombings at the US Embassy in Kenya and Tanzania which brought Al Qaeda to the public's attention. Google was founded in 1998 which was not news at the time, but which, like the other items, had long-lasting reverberations and contained the seeds of many issues that our on our minds today.

One of the biggest popular music events that year was the release of the R&B/Hip-Hop album, "The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill." In our family, with two young children, we listened to the CD almost constantly. I remember a road trip from the Bay Area to San Diego during which we must have listened to it a half-dozen times. The album remained in the family rotation over the next decade and a half while my kids grew up.

It was significant year personally because my family joined me in California where I had recently started working for Sun Microsystems. It was the beginning of my life in the technology industry. By the middle of the year I knew that I belonged and could add significant value to the company. My wife was not happy about moving to California, but she did start working for the company which recently celebrated her 20th anniversary with them. That was the year that my daughter started kindergarten, embarking on 16 consecutive years of formal education. To be honest, lots of things about the year were difficult: I do not feel nostalgic or wish that I could have the time back. But when I do hear songs such as "Doo Wop (That Thing)" from the *Miseducation of Lauryn Hill*, it takes me right back to a busy and enriching time.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/T6QKqFPRZSA" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
