---
layout: post
title:  "Twitter"
---
This is the first of several posts evaluating the pluses and minuses of various social media platforms (that I know personally).  The goal here is to objectively consider benefits and drawbacks and to evaluate where the company and the marketplace might take those features.

When Twitter launched in the mid-2000s, it's hallmark was simplicity. 140-character posts with a purely chronological timeline. Early on, before I joined, the user interface was the text message (when I started, receiving tweets as texts was still an option). The tweet has evolved a lot - increasing in length and including photos and other media.  The timeline has also changed - tweets displayed are now selected algorithmically and are interspersed with 'promoted tweets' and other ads.

The main benefit of Twitter is that it serves as an open, universal newswire. It's an amazing source for breaking news and also for any kind of niche information. Some professional journalists have broken stories on Twitter in ways that are far more dynamic and interesting than in the 'legacy' media that pays their salary. An example is this piece by the NY Times' Rukmini Callimachi:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">1. Twenty years ago today, al-Qaeda bombed the U.S embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, killing scores of people and inaugurating the era of global terror, where jihadists sought to kill Westerners and anyone allied with them at all four corners of the world.</p>&mdash; Rukmini Callimachi (@rcallimachi) <a href="https://twitter.com/rcallimachi/status/1026873922665570305?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 7, 2018</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>


The drawbacks of Twitter are too many to mention in a brief blog post:

1. it encourages "filter bubbles" where people tend to follow only like-minded people or only engage in vituperative exchanges with folks with whom they disagree.
1. it is susceptible to manipulation and malignant targeting through its advertising platform.
1. It doesn't really work very well (or is underdeveloped) as a social network except among celebrities and other niche groups. This has somewhat restricted its user numbers: it certainly results in a high number of passive users.

As a commercial entity, Twitter has had problems because its founders oversold it's prospects as an advertising platform. Accordingly, its early valuation was too high and when it was not able to live up to promised user or revenue numbers, the stock has been punished. It's unclear to me what the future will bring for the platform. For a while, it seemed likely that it would be acquired by a more successful social media platform. At this point, I'm not sure that any of its competitors could do much with it. However, the universal news service aspect of Twitter is useful to many and seems likely to continue in some form.
