---
layout: post
title:  "Social Media Backlash"
---
When I started to establish a social media presence a little over ten years ago, my motivation was mainly professional. At the time, I worked for a then-prominent technology company which had lost its edge.  Facebook had recently become prominent in Silicon Valley, Twitter was having its initial 'moment' among the digerati, and other outlets had achieved renown. As a technology professional, it is always smart to adopt early and experimentally - especially if one suspects one will be looking for a new job soon..

By and large, I have felt that time on social media was well-invested and for a long time it was fun too! Lately, though, I have lost enthusiasm for maintaining social media accounts and using them to communicate with both friends and professional contacts. One of the reasons for this has been the lack of regard for users' privacy demonstrated by Facebook and other companies.

A friend from Brooklyn posted a 'tweetstorm' today that articulated some of his reasons for standing down from social media in a very thoughtful way. I don't agree with all his conclusions, but the points are excellent.  Click on the embedded tweet to see the full 'tweetstorm' (there are 10 items - all of them worth reading).

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">1/ I increasingly feel like unless you are already famous, wealthy, or powerful, there is really no reason for someone like me who is just a “regular” (I.e., obscure) person to blog and, especially, tweet. No one reads, and fewer still care, what not famous people have to say.</p>&mdash; Rob Underwood (@brooklynrob) <a href="https://twitter.com/brooklynrob/status/1026763405192044544?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 7, 2018</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
