---
layout: post
title:  "Weekend Fun: WNBA and analytics"
date:   2019-06-10  
categories: Basketball, Data analytics
---
The NBA Finals are down to the very last games - only one more if the Toronto Raptors continue to play as well as they have throughout the playoffs. Concurrently with these final NBA games, attention has started to move to the WNBA which is in the early stages of its spring-summer 2019 campaign. The Seattle Storm are defending champions, but before the new season even started, it lost its two biggest stars, league MVP, Breanna Stewart, and team captain, Sue Bird, to season-ending injuries. The Storm are off to a 3-3 start and look unlikely to repeat.

The WNBA league office (run by the NBA league office) has upgraded the [WNBA stats web page](https://stats.wnba.com) so that many of the advanced stats available on the NBA page are also available for the women's league. The "W" also commissioned an article about some of the insights that can be gleaned from the new stats(https://www.wnba.com/news/taking-wnba-stats-to-the-next-level/).

While I have no reason to doubt the items mentioned in Ian Levy's article, the path to performing such analysis is not demonstrated nor are code samples shared. Some of the points made [four years ago by Ben Detrick in *The New Yorker*](https://www.newyorker.com/sports/sporting-scene/closing-basketballs-gender-data-gap) about a basketball "gender data gap" are still true:
- detailed analytics similar to the Second Spectrum data collected by the NBA are generally not available at all;
- turn-around time for the statistics that are supported by the league is 12 hours as opposed to "real-time" for the NBA;
- the economics of the game do not support team-hired professional analytics staffs as has become standard in the NBA; nor is the game followed by a sufficient quantity of fanatics to generate interesting amateur statistics.

The WNBA features exciting basketball played by the best athletes in the world. While it is shame that its business has not yet become more lucrative, there is sufficient incentive to make the competition extremely intense. No doubt, some of the teams will seek competitive advantage wherever they can find it. One of the most promising places is among the detailed data compiled for all the games.
